319
Arsenicum (Dunham, 1902)
with almost loss of pulse, with fluttering of the heart. Sudden prostration.
So that prostration almost monopolizes the remedy; but without some
considerable amount of prostration running through it we do not think
very much about Arsenicum; so that the complaints that are chronic, and
the complaints that are acute, to direct unquestionably to Ars. must have
something ofthat element (prostration) in them. Something of the element
of weakness. Some will say so exhausted, some will say, "so tired," some
will say "so prostrated," some will say "so weak" and looking at patients
sometimes one word comes into the mind, and sometimes the other; but
weakness, great weakness.
Another feature comes up, restlessness. The Ars.t patient is so
restless. In chronic diseases he is moving one limb, and then another.
An uneasiness in the legs, and in the arms. An indescribable nervousness
in his parts. And this increases, and increases, and sometimes he seems
to imagine that he gets a little better if he moves around a little, but he
has to keep at it. The instant he stops he feels that he was no better from
motion. He has to keep going. It impels, and compels, and propels him
to keep busy, to keep doing something. In chronic diseases he has that
restlessness in the body as if there was some anguish, some awful thing
creeping all over him that is indescribable; and it comes on in the night.
They seem to haunt him in his sleep, and he wakes up with anxiety, and
with fear, and he gets up out of bed and moves around. Just think what
it is I am describing. How would you like to have it? Just bring it home
into your own affairs, and think what an awful thing it is to have this
Arsenicum restlessness.
In acute diseases, like little fevers, and big fevers, he gets into bed
because he is so tired, and he tosses and turns, and he gets out of bed,
and he gets into a chair, and he cannot stay there, and he goes around
faster and faster, and gets a regular hustle on him, but he does not seem
to get any better. It does not seem to help him. The children get it, the
little ones carried in their mother's arms; the little one looks sick, looks
in a pitiful state of restlessness, and shows it all, and wants the mother
to hurry, hurry, and the mother goes up and down the room as fast as
she can walk with that infant in her arms, and it seems to suffer less, it
screams less. She walks faster and faster until the infant tires her out.
She must hurry. And the little ones that are big enough to talk will say
Something that means hurry, hurry, hurry, and there is no stopping to it.
(Repertory:MIND: CARRIED, desires to be, fast)
